whats new in 2.12
ability to select items in the project from the global library items menu. 
removed the t-pose layer that was missing the animation mask.
updated documentation on events, new slot builder features
better logic when cleaning up the rig in the editor (only on race change, and only if "rebuild skeleton" is checked)
moved some items out of examples that should have been in the core folders.
added option (on by default) to slim down scene saved files that have uma editor-time generated characters in them.
fixed materials that were stripped when you rebuild addressable groups.
you can now add "override dna" to wardrobe recipes. these will be applied instead of the existing dna.
new option on shared colors to force update the shared color from the recipes (on the property block)
now, when you edit a wardrobe item, and a character has that in their preload wardrobe in the active scene, the character will be rebuilt when the wardrobe item is changed.
the clear button in a wardrobe recipe will now ask "are you sure". select cancel if you are not.
you can now target specific races on slots in wardrobe recipes (in the tags dropdown).
umarandomizer will now allow you to set null slots, and weight them (so you have a chance of not adding anything)
cloth self-collision properties added to umaclothproperties
if you edit a recipe, slot, overlay or race, any edit time umas that use those will be regenerated, and any instantiated ones in the cache will be released so the index will pick up the new versions immediately.
10x increase in speed copying rendertextures to texture2d when using modern graphics api (dx11/12, ps4, opengl 4.3, opengl es 3.1, metal, etc.)
plugin system to add your own ui pieces into the recipe editor (iumarecipeplugin)
option to recalculate tangents in slot builder
added save/load/clear buttons to the tags list on the slots in the recipe editor.
experimental support for saving and restoring regular mounted items between builds. to use, add the "umaignore" tag to the object 
new menuitem in global library to apply selected races to selected wardrobe items.
when creating a prefab using the prefab maker, uma will now correctly detect detail normal maps, and will also mark all normal maps as normal maps in the import settings.
option to add "standalone dna" component to prefab, giving you the option to have dna on the non-uma prefabs. when using this option, uma is required to be in the scene to be able to process the dna.
experimental - multiple bone chains in umajigglebone
fixed issue in addressables caused by out of order calling of events and actions in new addressable library
updated several scenes to be more current


Whats new in 2.11.6
Tags function in character editor (clear/load/save)
Added new eyebrows for male character
Update male base recipe with eyebrows
Added Set Mount Transform function on UMAMountedItem
Reworked "hide" on DynamicCharacterAvatar so it was stateless
Fixed Expression Player so it didn't setup the bones until it was needed.
Hides from suppressed slots are no longer used.
Fix Expression Player so it will still update even if jaw/head turned off.
Character Editor was not saving tags
Added foldout for tags

Whats new in 2.11.5
Fixed bug where UVs could be incorrectly positioned when multiple slots shared a non-atlas material
Added a checkbox to disable garbage collection during the edit process
Removed some debug messages that were no longer needed
Fixed issue where DNA could get an exception if you recompile but have a scene open that does not have a UMAContext
Edit time generation will create a UMAContext from the UMA_GLIB prefab if you drop a UMA in a scene that does not have one. This will be deleted when something else is selected.
Fixed issue with Animancer and Playables when building an UMA.

Whats new in 2.11.4
Typo fixed
Fixed issue where 32 bit meshes were corrupted.
Fixed issue where LOD system could "thrash" and flipflop LOD levels.
Added time and random variation to LOD test so all checks do not happen on the same frame.
Expression player fixes - now works in Edit Mode
Fixes for overlays with no textures
Fixes for mismatched overlys/slots
Fixes for asmdef and addressables

Whats new in 2.11

Highlights
  UMA avatars are now visible at edit time, and can be modified directly in the editor.
  Significantly faster UMA builds in built applications
  More than 4 bone weights per vertex
  Better usage of texture atlas using new fit methods
  Transform (scale and rotate) overlays in recipes
  Backup/Restore of global library
  Numerous bug fixes

Generation
  Added support for more than 4 boneweights. Can now use as many boneweights as you like. 
  Reworked the SkinnedMeshCombiner to use the new boneweights.
  New "no coroutines" method of generation results in faster build
  Skeleton removal during build is now done in build process to fix issues where skeleton is not available during some frames.
  New texture atlas fitting methods:  
     Reduce (with a variable reduction amount)
     Best Fit Square (Expands the texture to the best fit square, and then reduces them to fit the atlas). This takes a bit more work, but wastes the least space.
  Broke out fit methods on generator
  Added property to sharpen reduced textures by forcing it to use a higher mip. Produces significantly more detailed output on textures that are fit.

Scenes
  Updated many scenes to use better lighting.
  Updated Mounting Objects example scene to show how to use UMAMountedItem.
  Updated Ragdoll scene to show how to detect what part of the body is hit.

Recipes
  Added ability to transform (scale and rotate) an overlay in a recipe (Not on first overlay - only additional overlays)
  Added ability to change color channel length on shared colors in recipe editor.
  Added Property Blocks to Overlay Colors (shared colors). Now you can set floats, vectors, ints, colors, matrixes, etc. on the materials.

ExpressionPlayer
  Added Pointing, Peace Sign, Rude sign, and grasp to Expression Player. Note: the arms/hands must be procedurally driven for this to look right (VR, etc).
  Fixed some errors where the Expression Player could generate errors during startup

DynamicCharacterAvatar
  UMA characters are now visible at edit time (can be disabled)
  Made an edit time DNA editor, combined with colors and wardrobe under "customization".
  Added filters to colors in DCA customizer section
  Added UpdateBounds() function.
  Added load/save preset in the editor.
  Default colors are now white/black for the various colors on the race.
  New events: WardrobeAdded and WardrobeRemoved. 
  Added "Always Rebuild Skeleton" option in the advanced settings. This will help you keep your rig clean and tidy, for a slight performance cost.

UMAMountedItem
  New object to make mounting simpler. Add this to an object you want to make mountable. Specify the bone you want to attach it to, and any offset/rotation. Will automatically attach and process, and survive rebuilds.

OverlayData
  Made it possible to have Overlays with no texture channels (these overlays can be modified with material property blocks).

SlotData
  New: Wildcard slots. This is a type of utility slots that can be added to recipes, which allows you to place overlays onto slots (or other overlays) based on tag. So you can place an 
       overlay onto a "Torso" without knowing the actual slot ID, just the tag. This allows you to reuse recipes for slots that have the same UV coordinates.
Slotbuilder
  Made blender slot rotation fixup optional.
  Can now specify bones to keep when building slots. (for mount points, etc)

Global Library
  Functions (and menu items) to backup and restore the Global Library.
  Made the Build Preprocessor optional (off by default)

Misc
  Set proportions on default female race to a bit less heroic.
  Fixed some possible warnings during overlay generation.
  Fixed race loading in editor so it does not need to instantiate the race to get slots
  Lot of minor issues where assumptions were made in code that occasionally weren't true.
  URP conversion option will convert hair to use Speedtree8 shader
  Forearm Twist slot script will now let you set the names of the bones
  Reworked the bone cleaner to make it more robust
  Added flipping, highlighting to bone pose editor
  Added "find UMA" to bone pose editor, so you don't have to select it
  Bone Pose Editor will now remember the selected UMA when possible
  Bone Pose Editor will now allow mirroring on X,Y,Z axis. Default UMA (blender export) is on Y axis.  
  Provided sane colors for additive channel when an overlay did not have all channel colors defined (issue with core samples)
  Tightened up avatars, and made the new avatars the default
  Numerous bug fixes on edge cases
  Better resource cleanup

DCARendererManager
  Added option EnableRenderers to turn on/off the renderer manager for toggling between first and third person.
  

What's new in 2.10.1

This is a bugfix update, with only a few new features.

New features
   AvatarDefinition class added.
   Created to allow the creation/update of avatars without generating in UMA.
   Updated Save And Load sample scene to optionally use the new AvatarDefinition
   SecretHair added
   Added support for submeshes other than 0 in MeshHideAssets
   New events on DCA for AnimatorSaved/AnimatorRestored
   Added features to Animation Target Renamer

Fixes/Updates

Addressables
   Caching would cause addressable items to fail after the second load of a recipe.
   ASMDef function moved to preferences, fix for broken asmdef with addressables.
   Fixed possible timing issues in DelayUnload functionality when events are out of order, or new builds happen too fast.


Global Library
   Addressables Group Generator was adding textures twice. Fixed.
   AssetBundle add function would get an error when loading at runtime.
   Missed freeing a reference on the item when released.
   Added Menu Item to cleanup references if you somehow got them while switching to addressables.
   Fixed lockup bug in some cases while drawing menu items and turning addressables on/off.
   Fixed AssetItem GUID references at runtime (only needed at edit time)
   Fixed various bugs with missing types, null checks, etc.

Misc Fixes
   Unable to set the default renderer options in some versions of Unity. 
   Checks for nulls in some cases where items were removed, but not from lookup tables.
   Fix AssetDB v2 crash issue when inspecting SlotDataAsset
   Optimized the loading of overlays from recipes when having a large number in a recipe.
   Wardrobe Editor was clipping the content incorrectly in 2019.3+
   Negative Blendshapes can now bake correctly
   Fix for MeshHideAsset editor scene in HDRP, 2019.3+





What's new in 2.10 

Minimum supported version is 2018.4
Requires .Net 4.X compatibility in player settings. 

Important: In this version, the DynamicAssetLoader is only kept for compatiblity with old projects. To use Asset Bundles, you should either use Addressables, or manually download them and load them into the library.

Support for Addressables
  Automated generation of addressables groups (including LOD slots)
  Automated labelling of indexed items by recipe (including LOD slots)
  Automated cleanup of slots/overlays/textures
  Significantly reduced memory overhead
  Build requests are queued up with all relevant data
  Added recipes to Addressables. If you do this, you must load them before access (they are all labelled by recipe and with 'UMA_Recipe')
  Will now Keep shared group on regeneration. 
  Can now filter on non-added recipes.
  Can now individually choose to add a recipe to addressables, or to update a recipe. 
  Plugin system to customize how addressables are generated.

New global library window
  New functions to mark items by various parameters
  New Addressables Menu to generate items
  New Ability to remove unused slots/overlays using the addressable groups (Remove Orphans). Requires generating labels from recipes.
  New Ability to remove items from library by dropping a folder onto the lib
  Repair function will now attempt to repair addressable item groups and labels
  Can view if an item is in resources, or addressable now
  Protected resource items from being deleted as orphans
Added a label field to recipes to allow the user to override addressable label names
Moved Mesh  Hide mask creation to mesh building, to address sync issues
Updated DNA checks to pull from global library instead of searching resources. Fixes an issue on android
When the animator is rebuilt, the layer weights are saved and restored now
LoadFromRecipeString now has a flag to clear the existing wardrobe when loading
Added SetRawColor function (and code) so you can pass in an OverlayColorData and the sytem won't monkey with it
UMAMaterial Changes
   Added checkbox to use the overlay multiplier color as the background for alpha blended overlays. 
   Added a multiplier to allow adjusting that color. This improves the look of hair (gets rid of banding on the edges)
   Added a "Non Shader Texture" flag to the texture channels. This allows a texture to be combined, but it will not be set on the material.
   Added menu option to convert all UMAMaterials to use LWRP/URP material property names. you will still need to run the unity update utility in addition to this.
Added Animation Clip Target Renamer to help with renaming targets for UMAs when the animation is broken
Reworked compatible races recipe loading, so they are figured out in the index at startup
Context changes
    Created a new UMAGlobalContext context that pulls everything from the global library. 
    (This removes the need for the various libraries - racelibrary, slotlibrary, etc.)
    All access to UMA data now goes through the contexts.
    Created new prefab UMA_GLIB using the global context. It is recommended to switch to this version in 2.10.
LOD Improvements
    Added "Maximum LOD Level" to SlotDataAsset, and Suppressed flag to SlotData for use by LOD systems
    Added "Use Slot Dropping" to UMASimpleLOD, this will suppress slots based on the fields above.
    By default, the eyebrows, eyelashes, and Inner Mouth are set to drop after LOD 0. Eyes are set to drop after LOD 1.
Ability to hide slots by Slot tag.
Added support for 32 bit index buffers (large meshes). To enable, add UMA_32BITBUFFERS to the player defines. This is experimental at this time.
Verify button in Slot Builder Window will detect UV Coordinates that are out of range.
Added Elf male and Elf female races with base race recipes.
CollisionMatrixFixer will read the current layermask settings for Ragdoll and NoCollisions, and use those if found.
Added "AutoSetLayers" property to UMAPhysicsAvatar. When set, the player layer will be the current gameobject layer, and the Ragdoll layer will be read from the layermask settings.
Added Shader Parameter Mapping to UMAMaterial - UMAMaterials can now map shared colors to color properties in the generated material. Useful for shaders that have extra color parms (like skin & hair shaders).
Added "AtlasResolutionScale" to DynamicCharacterAvatar. Using this, you can lower the atlas resolution for specific avatars, for example ones used for icons, etc. Warning: UMASimpleLOD can override this, so don't use in conjunction with that component.
Added "Resources Only" flag to UMA recipes. Checking this will skip adding this recipe, and it's slots, overlays and textures to Addressabe groups.
New Menuitem on UMA Menu: "WebGL/Enable Embedded Resources". This will turn on embedded resources in WebGL, allowing UMA to work right in WebGL.
Overlay coordinates can now be specified in UV range (0..1) in addition to absolute range. This should make it much easier to handle Unity converting textures to square on mobile, or the need to resize textures for performance.
New Detail Normal map texture channel type, allows combining of normal maps in UMAMaterials (standard renderer only at this point)
New Non-Shader texture channel type, allows a texture to be accumulated on the atlas, but not sent to a material. 
The first RuntimeAnimatorController for compatible races will now be added if a race specific controller is not found.
You can now pass a constructed DynamicCharacterAvatar to the UMARandomAvatar.Randomize() function to regenerate it randomly.
New scene ("OverlayAligner") to convert and adjust overlay coordinates visually. 
Performance improvements - up to a 5% increase in speed when building under 2019.3 due to boneweight optimizations.
Added support for more than 32 wardrobe slots (problem with Masked Field editor)
Added DefaultRendererAsset property to DynamicCharacterAvatar. This lets you set "UpdateWhenOffscreen", the renderer name, etc, for the default renderer. If you don't add a DCA Renderer Manager, or setup a Renderer Asset for a slot, this one will be used to set renderer properties.
Standard Races now use mecanim-friendly avatars by default

New "How To" scenes
 * How to construct a DCA from scratch
 * How to construct and load a DCA from a prefab
 * How to load and save a DCA to a string
 * How to use a slider to control DNA

Various bug fixes & changes
    Fixed various overlays that were missing textures or had the wrong count
    Fixed some scenes that had broken over time
    Sometimes a shader would not be compiled correctly.
    Reworked recipe editor and disallowed duplicate mesh hide assets.
    Fixed bug where you couldn't add a Wardrobe Collection using SetSlot before Start() was called on the DCA.
    Fixed bug in 2019.3 where it was not finding the type for RuntimeAnimatorController in build.
    Fixed bug where WardrobeCollections would end up indexed in multiple places
    If you supply an avatar and animator from the project, it will no longer attempt to delete the avatar when changing the race

Many more bugs/fixes/updates. 


What's new in 2.9
Renderer Manager - allow you to specify visibility, shadows of specific model parts.
Render Manager scene - hides head in world, but not in shadows, reflections
HDRP and LWRP compatibility. (Note: assets will need to be modified).
Option on Generator to force all pending UMA's to be built on the next frame.
Updated Documentation
Updated hair shaders for Smoother hair blending.
Two sample wardrobe items that modify the bone pose.
New menu item to generate all the Controller and Bone Pose DNA for the new Physique slot.
Various bug fixes/enhancements
    Character colors not saving in the recipe editor.
    infrequent DNA obj ref error when switching races.
	Will build from settings if invalid file or options specified.
	Keep Avatar option
	Ability to move InternalDataStore folder (name must remain the same, but location can change)
UMABoneCleaner - cleanup after adding extra bones
UMA Jiggle slots
UMA Sway Bone - for ponytails, etc.
New menu item to extract the Mecanim avatar from a UMA at runtime
Default Mecanim avatars added race folder
Experimental - Ability to specify position of overlay in Texture Atlas
Asmdef files moved to zip. Unzip to assets/UMA.



What's new in 2.8.1
Restructed files and folders.
Easier to delete examples.
Added Iterations to UMAGenerator to increase the number of avatars generated per frame.
Added ASMDEF files to speed compiles. (This is a 2017.3+ feature)
Various minor fixes and updates (new accessors, build issues fixed, etc).
Added DCA Randomizer and Random Crowd generator and scene.
Updated General Documentation.
Added Content Creation documentation.
Compatiblity changes for UMA Power Tools 2.8

What’s new in 2.8

New Features

Reworked Blendshapes, improved API, optimized.
Improved performance in expression player.
Ability to set texture properties on the UMMaterial (aniso level, trilinear filtering, mipmap bias).
Ability to downsample textures at atlas build time (in UMAMaterial).
Ability to hide any slot from a wardrobe (not just base slots)
Improved Physics Avatar.
UMAMeshData is now clonable
Fixed issue with removed slots when using MeshHideAssets
Cleaned up error reporting for duplicate bones
Support for UWP build using IL2CPP
Updated queue on hair shader and materials for improved look against skyboxes
Added Timeline Clips for Race, Colors, DNA, and Wardrobe
Mouse orbitor now takes a bone to look at (instead of a bone path)
Unity 2018.3 compatibility
New Dynamic DNA plugin framework
New scene with new Dynamic DNA (ElfOrAlien) showing Color DNA, Morph DNA, Bone DNA all in one.
Added spoiler to Car demo
DNAConverterController assets now replace the old DNABehaviour prefabs. A single DNA name can now be used to control multiple modifications to the avatar (Blendshapes, BonePoses, fading normal maps, changing colors and more!), Simpler to use and much faster!
Example scenes have been restructured to be easier to find.
Global library (UMAAssetIndexer) is now a ScriptableObject.
Improved raycasting when detecting occluded faces in Mesh Hide Asset editor.
Various warnings and errors if users do unexpected things (delete global lib, etc)
Various small fixes on some of the example scenes.
High poly models now use a bone pose for initial bone positions.
HumanMale, HumanFemale updated to use DNAConverterControllers. These should be the default races to use now.
Normal shader updated to combine normals at runtime using RGBA32 textures (default)
Developers can now add (and sell or distribute) new dna functionality for DNAConverterController using the new DynamicDNAPlugin API
and many more bug fixes and optimizations

Editor Improvements

Add race updater to update base race overlays to new materials
New editors for the new DNAConverterController
UMAGenerator atlas size is now a dropdown list
Added progress bar when adding items to Global Lib via drag/drop or rebuild.
Added Re-orderable list to Dynamic DNA
Lot of enhancements to the Mesh Hide system:
•	Ability to view and export UV map (With alpha for selected polys)
•	Ability to select base slots from dropdown.
•	Symmetry paint mode
Ability to create wardrobe recipes from hierarchy and slot builder
Tags editor to mass tag UMA assets (and remove UMA tags)
Copy/Paste DCA Wardrobe
Add progress bars to global library
Added TPose inspector
Menu item to create Dynamic DNA
Ability to edit edit multiple SlotdataAsset and OverlayDataAsset in the inspector
Morph DNA editor added
Scene Changes
New DCA Sample accessory mounting scene added
New Timeline sample scene showing how to morph, recolor, change sex, and change wardrobe.
Fixed small issue with not found colors in Asset Bundle scene
Help text added to most scenes
UNET has been deprecated, so the UNET networking scenes have been removed.
Minor scene fixes (remove warnings, fix missing prefab, remove extraneous components)

